General

Q: In maps utilizing hyperlanes (e.g. 5p map), what counts as the edge of the game board?

A: Intention is that one of the edges of a system tile does not touch another system tile OR hyperlane tile in order to be considered on the edge of the board.

Q: When ships move, do they move “into” systems other than the destination system?

A: Only the destination system is considered moved “into,” other systems are moved “through.”

Q: Can you resolve end of turn abilities on the turn you pass?

A: Yes.

Q: When you exceed the number of plastic infantry/fighters available, are unaccompanied tokens removed or destroyed?

A: Removed.

Q: Can abilities that trigger “at the start of a combat” be played in combats you are not participating in?

A: No, any non-agent “at the start of a combat” abilities must be played during a combat you are participating in.

Q: In regards to timing, is “after x” distinct from “before y” or are they the same timing?

A: They are distinct. “After x” happens before “before y”

Q: How does “moving through wormholes” work exactly? Specifically for the Ghosts of Creuss commander or the Ion Storm. Do you choose the path you take to move if multiple paths exist?

A: When you move between systems that both contain a viable wormhole path, you can choose to use those wormholes, a different set of wormholes that are adjacent, or regular adjacency. The player moving the ships chooses the path their ships move through.

Q: When are the hits generated by reflective shielding assigned?

A: The hits are immediately assigned if not during the normal assign hits step. If during the normal assign hits step, they are added to the pool of hits already generated.

Q: Please confirm rules regarding Transport and Movement Abilities (L1Z1X Hero, Argent Hero, Mahact Hero).

A: The LRR will be updated to reflect that transportation of units out of systems that contain your command tokens are only applicable during tactical actions. During Movement abilities, you can transport units out of systems that contain your tokens.

Q: Please elaborate on the keyword "replace" and how it relates to not having any plastic left in reinforcements. Does it follow the same rules as "remove and place"? For example, can you play the Action card "Refit Troops" when you have no Mechs in reinforcements?
A: Any instance of “replace” can be considered to say “remove and place” if no units are left in reinforcements, and would be covered by Component Limitations in the LRR. Yes Refit Troops could be played with no mechs in reinforcements. Note, this overturns a previous ruling regarding Minister of Industry.

Q: If a unit is damaged, and is “removed and placed” from the board via a game effect, does it come back repaired or does it remain damaged.

A: If it is being removed and placed via an ability such as Transit Diodes it stays in the same state. If it is produced, placed, or replaced which would require a remove and place it is no longer damaged.

Q: What happens to captured units when the owner is eliminated?

A: Captured units remain on the sheet of the player that captured them. If they would ever be returned to the eliminated player, they are returned to the game box instead

Exploration

Q: When you gain control of planets, you gain them simultaneously. Can you explore a cultural planet and draw Freelancers, then build a mech on another planet in that system?

A: No, you choose an order to gain and explore planets. The sequence would be > gain control of planet A > explore planet A > gain control of planet B > explore planet be> so on.

Q: What happens to your relics and relic fragments when you're eliminated?

A: Relics are purged, relic fragments discarded.

Q: Can a player “gain” a relic by purging fragments if there are no relics left?

A: Yes you can purge relic fragments and not gain a relic if there are none left in the deck.

Q: If you have more commodities than your maximum due to purging the Dynamis Core Relic, do you remove commodities to your limit?

A: Yes, you discard down.

Q: Can a transaction be performed in the middle of an exploration?

A: Yes, transactions may occur after an exploration card is revealed, before the effect is resolved, but other abilities may not be used until after the effect is resolved.

Q: Are the cards removed from the discard pile via the Relic “The Codex” public knowledge?

A: Yes, the discard is public knowledge, so anything removed from the discard is also public knowledge.

Q: Does the Crown of Thalnos Relic work with Infantry II resurrection rolls? Courageous to the End? Anti-Fighter Barrage?

A: No to Infantry 2, no to Courageous to the End, no to Anti-Fighter Barrage. The intent is ONLY combat rolls.  Future errata will clarify this.

Technology

Q: Can a player resolve an ability to gain a technology when they already have that technology (Fires of the Gashlai)?

A: No, you are not resolving the ability fully if you already have the specified technology.

Q: When researching technology via an action card, do you need the prerequisites?

A: If an ability instructs you to “research” a technology, you require the prerequisites on that technology to do so. If you are instructed to “gain” or “replace” a technology, you do not require prerequisites.

Q: Can you Sling Relay without producing anything?

A: No, you must produce a ship.

Q: Can you cast bonus votes using Predictive Intelligence if the technology is exhausted?

A: No, the card being exhausted prevents that ability from being used.

Q: What is the interaction between Infantry 2 and Capture?

A: Both happen

Q: When you gain trade goods from multiple planets using the Psychoarchaeology technology, do you gain them 1 at a time or as a group?

A: You gain them one at a time.

Objectives

Q: Do objectives that say "units" require multiple units, or is one enough?

A: One unit is enough to satisfy these requirements.

Q: Is a planet with a destroyed planet token no longer a planet for game purposes?

A: The destroyed planet token is no longer a planet for any purpose, and if it is covering the only planet in a system, that system contains no planets.

Q: Can you resolve the Impersonation action card to draw a secret objective if you are already at your limit of scored secret objectives?

A: Yes, you could draw an additional secret but would then need to return it and shuffle the secret objective deck

Q: Does another player having my “Trade Agreement” promissory note count for the secret objectives “Strengthen Bonds” or “Betray a Friend”?

A: No, only promissory notes that specifically instruct that player to place them in their play area count for these objectives.

Q: Please clarify the requirements of the Stage 2 Objective, Rule Distant Lands.

A: You must control 2 planets and each planet must be in or adjacent to one of 2 different opposing player’s Home Systems. This does not mean 2 planets in or adjacent to the same Home System, and it does not mean 1 planet that is adjacent to 2 different Home Systems.

Q: When EXACTLY are secret objectives scored? Specifically Become a Martyr in relation to elimination and Shard of the Throne, and Drive the Debate in relation to the “Legal Text” action cards. Also Yin Agent and Turn Their Fleets to Dust?

A: Secrets are scored “after”, so Become a Martyr would trigger after Shard of the Throne is lost  or elimination and “Legal Text” ACs would be played before Drive the Debate can be scored. If the last ship in a system is destroyed, TTFTD could be scored for destroying the last ship, then after the Yin agent would trigger.

Agendas

Q: If Covert Legislation draws an agenda that self-replaces (e.g. miscount disclosed), does it replace immediately?

A: Follow the text, draw a new agenda.

Q: Does the Speaker vote when Covert Legislation is drawn?

A: Yes.

Q: Does New Constitution exhaust home planets if they're not controlled by their owner?

A: No, you only exhaust planets in your home system if you control them.

Q: If Covert Legislation draws an "elect player" agenda, after all votes are cast, does a player with one of the "Legal Text" action cards need to play it before, or can they play it after they know what the agenda being voted on is? What about Deadly plot?

A: The “Legal Text” action cards and Deadly Plot must be played before the agenda that was voted on is revealed.

Q: What is the interaction between Deadly Plot and prediction abilities, given that Deadly Plot specifically says “resolved with no effect”.

A: “Resolved with no effect” is not an outcome that could have been predicted, so no prediction abilities can trigger.

Anomalies

Any units moving into, through or out of anomalies must follow the same rules for ships moving into, through or out of anomalies. This includes units being moved by Mahact’s Benediction or moving ground forces with G’hom Sek’kus.

Nebula rules will be changed. A Nebula will no longer require being the active system in order to move into it. 59.1 will effectively be changed to “Units may not move through a Nebula”

Factions

Argent Flight:

Q: When is Raid Formation applied? After rolling or after assigning hits? (Interacts with Waylay)

A: Raid formation is applied after rolling, before cancelling or assigning hits.

Q: Can ships damaged by Raid Formation trigger a window for the Direct Hit Action card?

A: No, Raid Formation does not cause the ship to use its Sustain Damage ability, it only causes it to become damaged, so there is no window for Direct Hit to be used.

Q: Does Strike Wing Alpha II infantry killing get prevented by Shields Holding/re-roll abilities?

A: The rolls from Strike Wing Alpha II can be subject to rerolls before the ability is applied, but the infantry would be destroyed BEFORE any cancellation of hits.

Barony of Letnev:

Q: Can War Funding Omega be used on Anti-Fighter Barrage rolls?

A: No, War Funding Omega, War Funding, Munitions Reserves and Crown of Thalnos, are specific to combat rolls.

Q: Does the Barony of Letnev agent, Viscount Unlenn, allow an extra dice to be rolled during AFB?

A: No, the Barony agent only has an effect on combat rolls.

Clan of Saar:

Q: How does Clan of Saar’s agent, Mendosa, interact with abilities that increase movement such as Gravity Drive or Flank Speed?

A: Clan of Saar’s agent, Mendosa, will get an errata to “WHEN you activate a system.” This means other bonuses would be applied after Mendosa takes effect.

Q: When leaving a Nebula, is Clan of Saar’s agent, Mendosa, applied as a bonus or setting the move value?

A: The Nebula section of the LRR will be edited to reflect changing the printed move value of a unit to 1, Mendosa would be treated as a bonus and would override the Nebula’s movement value rule.

Council Keleres:

Q: What is the duration of the Council Keleres agent, Xander Alexin Victori III?

A: The agent is exhausted at the time the commodities would be spent as trade goods, and only lasts for the duration of that spend.

Q: What is the order of gaining starting technology when Winnu and/or Argent Flight are in a game with Council Keleres? What if there are not two unique starting technologies at the beginning of the game?

A: Keleres selects after all other players have selected their starting technology. Keleres only gets one starting technology if there is only one other starting technology among all other factions at the table.

Q: Does Custodia Vigilia's PRODUCTION count as a unit for sarween tools, etc.?

A: Yes, Custodia Vigilia should include “as if it were a unit”.

Q: Does Custodia Vigilia count as a planet for objectives? Agendas? Do you gain it exhausted like a planet? Can it be terraformed (if yes, can it be explored)? Nano-Forged? Can units be placed on it? Can the Keleres player be eliminated with it in game?

A: This planet is not on the game board, and does not exist in a system. It is gained exhausted. It counts as a planet for objectives and agendas if it meets the specific criteria of those objectives and agendas. Terraform can be placed on it (Nano-Forge cannot since it is a legendary planet), but their attachment tokens are not placed on the game board. It may be explored, however units cannot be placed on it. Keleres cannot be eliminated if they control Custodia Vigilia.

Q: Does Custodia Vigilia give command tokens when a player scores public objectives off Imperial?

A: No, the intent is that the tokens are only gained off of using Imperial’s ability to gain a Victory Point because you control Mecatol Rex.

Q: How does the influence payment for the Council Keleres mech, Omniopiares, stack in multiples? Each a separate payment?

A: Each mech is one instance of spend one influence.

Q: With Agency Supply Network, can you use it on the same unit? Does it trigger Sarween Tools each time? Can you use it on a second dock in a system for a separate use of Sarween? How about off  of the Warfare secondary? Does it trigger a single unit's PRODUCTION, or an entire system's?

A: No, the second PRODUCTION instance must be different than one of the units that used the ability to trigger Agency Supply Network. Yes, Sarween Tools would trigger with each instance of PRODUCTION (twice). PRODUCTION is all or nothing during tactical actions, so you couldn’t choose to only use one ability in a system to then use another one in the same system. However, Warfare would allow you to do this, since it specifically says one space dock, Agency Supply Network could be used to use PRODUCTION at a second unit in the same system.

Q: How does the Council Keleres faction ability Law's Order interact with Minister of Peace/more than 2 PDS on a planet law?

A: All agendas are treated as blank for all players for the duration of that Council Keleres player’s turn.

Embers of Muaat:

Q: How does The Embers of Muaat Hero, Nova Seed, interact with tokens (e.g. wormholes, Mirage)?

A: Nova Seed also purges all tokens other than command tokens and frontier tokens. Any faction specific tokens are returned to that faction.

Emirates of Hacan:

Q: Can Hacan trade action cards after having Political Secret played against them?

A: Arbiters is a passive ability and the Emirates of Hacan can trade Action cards regardless of having their Political Secret played against them.

Q: What happens if the Emirates of Hacan trade a planet during combat using their mech’s ability? Particularly when combined with Integrated Economy or the Nomad faction technology Temporal Command Suite?

A: A planet that has the Hacan Mech can’t be traded in combat. You can’t produce ground forces on a planet with another player’s ground forces. Future errata will clarify this.

Empyrean:

Q: When a player gives you their commodities and triggers Dark Pact, do you gain all the trade goods simultaneously or the Dark Pact TG separately? (For the purposes of Pillage)

A: It is a single gain of commodities and 1 TG simultaneously.

Q: Can the Empyrean flagship be used to repair the same ship, multiple times in the same combat round? Can it spend a 4 influence planet to use the ability twice?

A: The Dynamo’s ability can be used multiple times in the same combat round by spending 2 influence, individually, each time. However, the same unit could not use its Sustain Damage ability multiple times during the same timing window.

Ghosts of Creuss:

Q: When multiple ships with capacity move through wormholes, how many fighters are placed with the Ghosts Commander, Sai Seravus?

A: When Sai Seravus is used, fighters are placed in the active system one at a time, up to the number of ships with capacity that moved through wormholes, or the capacity limit in the system is reached, whichever happens first.

Q: How does the Ghosts of Creuss Hero, Singularity Reactor, interact with tokens (e.g. wormholes, Mirage)?

A: All tokens stay with their original tile

L1Z1X Mindnet:

Q: Can the L1Z1X use harrow when they're defending during ground combat?

A: No, only the active player can use BOMBARDMENT.

Mahact Gene Sorcerers:

Q: If Mahact has an Arborec Command Token in their fleet pool, after another player activates an appropriate system that does not already contain a Mahact Mech, can the Mahact player produce a mech and then trigger that mech's ability to end a player’s turn?

A: No, the mech was not in the system at the time of activation, so it didn't see the trigger for its ability.

Q: Can you use the Mahact Agent, Jae Mir Kan, to place a token using the secondary of the Construction Strategy Card without placing a structure

A: The system that you place a token in must have an eligible planet for you to put a structure on.

Q: If the Mahact player has a token where they want to place a structure using another player's token, does the other player's token go in the system or to their reinforcements?

A: The token is still placed in the system.

Q: In regards to the Mahact Commander, Il Na Viroset, when does your turn end? Do you resolve when/after you activate a system abilities? Is this different from Nullification Field or Starlancer? Can you resolve end of your turn abilities?

A: Contrary to a previous Twitter ruling, when/after you activate and other abilities within your turn cannot be used when the Mahact player places a second token in a system. End of turn abilities can still be used. Any ability that ends your turn should be treated as ending your turn when they occur, and no further abilities during that same trigger window can take place.

Q: What's the interaction with the Mahact Commander, Il Na Viroset, and the Counterstroke action card?

A: Counterstroke cannot be played.

Q: Does Dark Energy Tap trigger if you used the Mahact Commander, Il Na Viroset?

A: No.

Q: Do ships roll when moving out of a gravity rift due to the Mahact Hero, Benediction?

A: Yes.

Q: When the Mahact hero, Benediction, is used who is considered the attacker and who is the defender? For ability purposes, is the combat system considered “The Active System”?

A: The ships being moved belong to the "attacker" and the ships not being moved belong to the "defender.” The combat system is treated as the active system during that combat.

Q: When using the Mahact Hero, Benediction, is capacity resolved after moving ships before the space combat? (Only relevant if moving fighters away from a space dock)

A: A Capacity check is resolved before the space combat begins.

Q: When using the Mahact Hero, Benediction, can the Mahact player transport other players' ground forces from planets? Can the units’ owner transport ground forces from planets?

A: No in both circumstances.

Q: When using the Mahact Hero, Benediction, can the Mahact player transport their own ground forces from planets when moving?

A: Yes.

Q: When using the Mahact Hero, Benediction, if another player's fleet is moved into a Mahact fleet, who is the attacker/defender?

A: The player that is moved is the attacker, the player that is moved into is the defender.

Q: Can Mahact use their mech ability on themselves?

A: Yes.

Q: If you are the Mahact player, what happens when an agenda tells you to “remove one of your command tokens from your fleet pool and return it to your reinforcements” but you only have tokens from other players in your fleet pool?

A: You are required to remove another player’s token and return it to that player’s reinforcements.

Q: If the law Fleet Regulations is in play, and Mahact already has 4 tokens in fleet, can they add another one and then discard one via Edict, or can they NOT add one after a combat win because of the “cannot” in Fleet Regulations?

A: The Mahact player can add a 5th token and choose one to return to their reinforcements from their fleet pool afterward.

Q: Can a player with 0 votes be targeted by Genetic Recombination? It is theoretically possible for someone to receive abilities via transaction to allow them to vote after the timing window of Genetic Recombination. Is there a defined difference between “cannot vote” and “currently has no votes” for the purposes of this technology?

A: Genetic Recombination happens before a player would exhaust planets to vote. So if a player cannot vote, or does not have votes to cast, they cannot be targeted by the tech. If they obtain an ability that would allow them to vote, they could be targeted by the tech before the votes are cast.

Mentak Coalition:

Q: Can the Mentak Coalition’s hero, Sleeper Cell, be used to place a warsun if you do not own the warsun technology?

A: No.

Q: If Mentak's Hero, Sleeper Cell, is used and their last ship is destroyed during a round of combat in which they also destroy an opponent's ship, does combat continue?

A: Yes, after both players assign hits the Mentak player then places a ship from their reinforcements in the active system and combat continues.

Q: If you use the Mentak Coalition’s Hero, Ipswitch, Loose Cannon, and lose your flagship in a combat, but destroy the other player’s flagship and rebuild your own, can you score Unveil Flagship?

A: No, the wording on Unveil Flagship would prevent you from scoring it since your flagship was destroyed in the combat, regardless of the fact that it returned.

Naalu Collective:

Q: Can the Naalu Collective commander, M’aban, or the Yin Brotherhood commander, Brother Omar, allow the player to choose to produce only 1 infantry/fighter and then another with their commander?

A: Yes, both of these commanders allow the player to choose to only build a single fighter/infantry for 1 resource and gain an additional unit of that type each time they do.

Q: The Naalu Collective agent, Z’eu Omega, says "resolve a tactical action" but this is during a component action. How does this work for the Mahact Gene-Sorceres mech, Starlancer? Master Plan? Ministers of Peace and War? Who is the active player for abilities/transactions? Can Naalu use Fleet Logistics after this action? Can players who passed use it?

A: The Naalu Collective agent, Z’eu Omega is a component action that allows a player to take a tactical action and effectively makes them the active player for the duration of the tactical action (and any actions that may occur after, due to further abilities causing further actions). This DOES NOT count as the tactical action player’s turn, so they cannot utilize fleet logistics, however they could use Master Plan or the Minister of War, as these reference actions and not a player’s turn. Minister of Peace and the Mahact Gene-Sorcerers mech, Starlancer ends the turn of the tactical action player, regardless of referencing a “turn”.

Q: When Covert Legislation is revealed, is there a window in which the Naalu Collective commander, M’aban Omega, can look at the next agenda card? Can they look while the Politics player is resolving the primary of that strategy card, or while putting them on the top/bottom?

A: The Naalu Collective Commander, M’aban Omega, cannot look at the next card when Covert Legislation is revealed before the speaker draws the top card of the agenda deck. It also cannot be used to interrupt the primary ability of the Politics strategy card.

Naaz-Rokha:

Q: Can the Naaz-Rohka hero, Hesh and Prit, be used when the player has no tokens in reinforcements?
A: The LRR will be updated to be more general towards taking off sheet if none are in reinforcements. This change should cover other requirements in this regard as well.

Q: Can you purge a relic fragment to gain a command token if you have no command tokens in your reinforcements?

A: Yes, you can purge the fragment and not gain a command token if there are none in reinforcements.

Q: For the Naaz-Rokha’s Distant Suns ability, do you decide to draw the extra exploration card before you draw the first card, or after?

A: Before the initial exploration card is drawn.

Nekro Virus:

Q: Can the Nekro Virus player use the Prophet's Tears Relic?

A: Yes, when the Nekro virus player uses their Propagation faction ability, they could exhaust the Relic to gain an action card. They cannot do this when they GAIN technology via their Technological Singularity faction ability.

Q: If the Universities of Jol-Nar player replaces a faction technology with their hero, what happens if the Nekro Virus player had a Valefar Assimilator token on it?

A: The token stays on the tech in the tech-deck and Valefar Assimilator still has that technology’s text.

Q: Can I use the Nekro Virus’ Agent, Nekro Malleon, or Psychoarchaeology or the Hacan Agent to interrupt another ability since the timing is “during the action phase”?

A: No, any ability that is used “during the action phase” cannot be resolved unless there are no other abilities currently being resolved.

Q: Are ground forces participating in combat via the Nekro Virus’ Flagship, The Alastor, in the space area? Are they affected by Argent Flight's Strike Wing Alpha II's ability?

A: Ground Forces participating in space combat via The Alastor do not move from their origin location. If they were on planets at the start of combat, they stay on the planet, participate in combat, and are immune to SWA2’s ability. If they started in space, they are in space and are subject to SWA2’s ability.

Nomad:

Q: Does the Duranium Armor technology allow you to repair Nomad Mechs that have used their ability to cancel a hit during space combat?

A: No, Duranium Armor only affects units participating (rolling dice) in a combat.

Q: Does Nomad’s Temporal Command Suite faction technology bypass transaction limits?

A: Yes, Temporal Command Suite’s transaction does not affect performing a second transaction with the same player that turn.

Q: Does the Nomad’s Hero, Ahk-Syl Siven, allow their flagship to pick up groundforces in systems that contain their tokens?

A: Yes.

Sardakk N'orr:

Q: Does a Ceasefire promissory note have any impact on committing ground forces from adjacent planets via Sardakk N’orr’s commander, G’hom Sek’kus?

A: Will change “commit ground forces” in LRR to say “move” to ensure Ceasefire works. Will also prevent units from being committed to planets in anomalies without the appropriate technology, or through wormholes if Enforced Travel Ban is a Law.

Q: Can the Sardakk N’orr player commit ground forces via their commander, G’hom Sek’kus, on defense?

A: No, only the active player can commit ground forces.

Q: Does using Dominus Orb allow the Sardakk N’orr player to commit ground forces via their commander, G’hom Sek’kus?

A: No, G’hom Sek’kus is explicitly preventing committing from systems with tokens, and Dominus Orb is purged several steps before committing takes place.

Q: Can Sardakk N’orr’s commander, G’hom Sek’kus, be used without moving any ships into the active system?

A: Yes, the commander can allow the Sardakk N’orr player to commit ground forces even without moving in ships.

Q: Does Valkyrie Particle Weave trigger after hits were produced if the hits were cancelled?

A: Yes, the hit from Valkyrie Particle Weave is still applied.

Titans of Ul:

Q: If you awaken a sleeper token or deploy your flagship and then your turn ends (Mahact mech, Nullification field, Minister of Peace), do you resolve combat?

A: Coalescence forces combat steps to occur. No other steps of the tactical action occur, and abilities can only be used within combat.

Q: If Titans of Ul have their commander, Tungstantus, unlocked and have 2 TGs and go to production to gain a third and build a carrier, is that TG able to be pillaged?

A: The gain and spend are simultaneous, so cannot be pillaged.

Q: Does the Titans of Ul promissory note “Terraform” count for the purposes of objectives like “Strengthen Bonds” or “Betray a Friend”?

A: Yes, when Terraform is attached to a planet it counts as being in that planet owner’s play area.

Q: Does 63.3 (2 PDS on a planet max) mean that Titans couldn't place a PDS via Sleeper token onto a planet where another player already has 2 PDS? Related, if a planet has 2 PDS on it already can you DEPLOY the Titan’s mech there, given that the mech is "when you would place a PDS"?

A: 63.3 does not prevent Titans from placing a PDS on a planet that contains 2 of another player’s PDS units. You cannot place a structure on a planet with the maximum number of your structures, which prevents using the DEPLOY ability on a planet with 2 PDS of yours, or placing more PDS than would be allowed using Transit Diodes. You also cannot DEPLOY a mech if you have no PDS in reinforcements, but could remove a PDS from the board and then DEPLOY your mech to an eligible target planet

Q: If the Titans Agent is used to cancel the only hit “when” it is generated against a player that has Valkyrie Particle Weave as a technology, does VPW trigger?

A: The Titan’s Agent will  receive an errata to have the same timing as Shields Holding or Sustain Damage. “Before you assign a hit”.  The hit is still produced, VPW triggers, then the hit is canceled.

Q: Can the Titans Hel-Titan move via abilities like the action card Ghost Squad or via the Sardakk N’Orr Alliance?

A: No, structures cannot move.

Universities of Jol-Nar:

Q: When the Universities of Jol-Nar player uses their hero, Rin, do they swap all techs simultaneously or consecutively?

A: Simultaneously, that is to say the Universities of Jol-Nar player cannot swap out a tech and re-take it during this component action.

Q: If the Universities of Jol-Nar player replaces a faction technology with their hero, what happens if the Nekro Virus player had a Valefar Assimilator token on it?

A: The token stays on the tech in the tech-deck and Valefar Assimilator still has that technology’s text.

Vuil’raith Cabal:

Q: Can Vortex be used on a ship if a player doesn't have any of those ships in their reinforcements?

A: No, since they cannot fully resolve Vortex.

Q: Can a ship benefit from the Vuil'raith Cabal promissory note, The Crucible, if it would not be able to reach a gravity rift on the way to the active system without it?

A: Yes, once a system has been activated and The Crucible has been played, the bonus would apply to all ships that can make it to the active system, including the bonuses from the promissory and the rift they are passing through.

Q: Are systems that contain Vuil’raith Cabal’s Dimensional Tears anomalies?

A: Yes, any game effect that references an anomaly includes systems containing Dimensional Tears.

Q: Can the Vuil’raith Cabal use their agent on someone who has their Trade Agreement used to take their commodities?

A: Yes, the commodities would not be there but the agent could still be used to capture a ship up to the player’s commodity value.

Q: Does the Cabal Flagship capture other units that are destroyed in the same timing window in which it is destroyed?

A: Yes.

Q: Does Cabal Agent count as "converting your own commodities," or is the Cabal player converting them for the purpose of Pillage?

A: No, whenever commodities are converted to a player’s own trade good area, they are not considered gained.

Winnu:

Q: Does the Winnu commander, Rickar Rickani, stack if Mecatol Rex is also a Legendary Planet?

A: No, the commander only triggers once no matter how many conditions are met, +2 is the max.

Xxcha Kingdom:

Q: Can the Xxcha Agent, Ggrocuto Rinn, be used to “ready” a planet that is not exhausted?

A: The target planet must be exhausted.

Q: If the Xxcha hero gives two players in the lead a Victory Point, and both players now have enough points to win the game, is the order for winning determined from Xxcha player (active player) onwards in initiative, or starting with the lowest initiatve?

A: Initiative order determines the winner. Initiative order is always the lowest initiative player onwards, regardless of who the active player is.

Q: Can the Xxcha Kingdom player play riders while using their hero, Xxekir Grom? Can other players use riders during the Xxcha hero?

A: Yes, the Xxcha player can play riders, and use their quash ability during their hero (other players do not vote, even if quashed). Other players cannot play any action cards as these are abilities.

Q: If Xxcha draws Covert legislation as one of their 5 Agendas with their hero, do they get to see the next agenda that would be tied to it as well? Related, what happens if they draw an agenda that says "if there are no laws in play..." off of their hero?

A: Xxcha would only get to see the agenda tied to Covert Legislation if it was one of the 2 agendas selected to resolve and they are the speaker, otherwise the speaker would see the agenda. If there are no laws in play a new agenda is drawn

Q: When using the Xxcha Kingdom Hero Xxekir Grom, can other players resolve agendas that affect the whole table, such as Galactic Crisis Pact?

A: The intent is that players still resolve agendas that the Xxcha player chooses off of their Hero. I recognize that this may conflict with RAW, but the intention was never to make other players unable to resolve agenda effects.

Q: Checks and balances against reads “Each player readies only 3 of their planets at the end of this agenda phase.” Does this trigger at the end of Xxchas hero? At the end of the next agenda phase, not at all?

A: This effect does not trigger if it happens during the Xxcha Hero.

Q: When the Xxcha Kingdom hero, Political Data Nexus Omega, is used do they get both resources and influence, or is it only one?

A: When the Xxcha Kingdom hero, Political Data Nexus Omega, is used to combine resource and influence values, the Xxcha Kingdom player chooses to spend those as one or the other, not both.

Q: For the Xxcha Kingdom hero, Political Data Nexus Omega, unlock condition; what is the order of scoring public and secret objectives? Can the hero be unlocked in between these?

A: Scoring in the status phase is done all at once, the unlock condition of heroes is not checked until the score objectives step of the status phase is complete.

Q: If the Xxcha Kingdom plays uprising with Political Data Nexus Omega unlocked do they get the sum of both influence and resources in trade goods?

A: When using an ability that references “resource value”, the printed resource value of the planet is used.

Yin Brotherhood:

Q: Does the Yin Brotherhood agent, Brother Milor, keep combat going after the last ship is destroyed?

A: Yes.

Q: Can the Yin Brotherhood commander, Brother Omar, or the Naalu Collective commander, M’aban, allow the player to choose to produce only 1 infantry/fighter and then another with their commander?

A: Yes, both of these commanders allow the player to choose to only build a single fighter/infantry for 1 resource and gain an additional unit of that type each time they do.

Q: The Yin Brotherhood hero, Quantum Dissemination Omega, says to "resolve invasions" on those planets. Does this allow for using Parley, committing additional ground forces, and using bombardment? Should this be ground combats?

A: The Yin hero, Quantum Dissemination Omega, should indicate to resolve ground combats on those planets, not full invasion steps. Parley can be played on one of the planets.

Q: Can the Yin Brotherhood Agent, Brother Milor Omega, be used during the Agenda Phase?

A: Brother Milor Omega can only be used during the action phase.

Q: What is the interaction between the Yin Brotherhood agent, Brother Milor Omega, and the Nekro Virus and Naalu Collective flagship abilities?

A: The units participating in combat via these flagship abilities are both a ground force and ship during combat. The owner of the unit can choose whether to place 2 infantry or 2 fighters when using Brother Milor Omega, however units placed this way can only continue to participate in space combat if fighters are placed, and can only continue to participate in ground combat if infantry are placed